When companies want to test new features or versions of a web page,
they often use a method called A/B testing.
The way this works is that one set of users
called the control group is shown the old version
of a page while another set of users called the
experiment group is shown the new version of a page.
Based on how both groups respond,
we can determine if the new version is better and should be launched.
This is actually just an application of
hypothesis testing where the null hypothesis would
be that the new version is no better or
even worse than the old version and the alternative,
would be that the new version is better than the old version.
A ton of companies use A/B testing to try out changes in features,
layouts and even colors to increase a metric that measures interest from their users.
For example, you could perform an A/B test to see if a new look for
your site's landing page increases
the likelihood of a visit or subscribing to your mailing list.
Or you could perform an A/B test to see if offering
personalized recommendations on a shopping site increases purchases.
One thing to be aware of is that although A/B testing can be good to
test if a new feature or version of a feature is better on a page,
it's not useful for everything.
For example, A/B testing can tell you the best way to rank a set of products on a site
but it can't tell you that the site would really
benefit from having two additional products added to the site.
It's also not always great for testing whole new experiences for
existing users due to factors like change aversion and novelty effect.
Existing users may give an unfair advantage to the older version
simply because they're unhappy with a change even if it's ultimately for the better.
Alternatively, they may give an unfair advantage to the new version
because they're excited or drawn to the change even if it isn't for the better.
In addition to these,
there are many other factors that can bias the results of an A/B test.
You'll learn more about those in this lesson.